    AIBO is an acronym for Artificial Intelligent roBOt and the word aibo is similar to the Japanese word for “partner.” These machines were first invented by Sony in the late 1990s and are essentially robotic dogs. Sony continued to remodel these robots each year for six years until it ended the AIBO project in 2005. Creating a robot whose primary goal was entertainment posed many challenges. For example, in order to keep the owner interested, the AIBO had to have unexpected or very complex actions so it would not be a monotonous collection of parts, but rather an intricate connection of parts and circuitry that allowed for artificial personality. 
    
    Making an entertainment robot was a novel idea during its time and the project received multiple awards. These include Japan’s “Good Design Award, Grand Prize” and the “Design for Asia award,” among others.
    
    Although the product resembled a dog, the creators did not start off with this idea in mind. Instead, they designed prototypes of entertainment robots that had six legs and more closely resembled the appearance of insects.
    
    The first generation models, which were sold in 1999, were a huge success. The first generation models, which sold for 250,000 yen (About 2,500 US dollars), had 3,000 robots allotted Japan and 2,000 allotted for sale in the US. All of these were sold out in just 20 minutes. Later that same year 3,000 of the next model, a limited edition, were introduced to the market and were sold out after just 17 seconds.
    
    Throughout their remodeling, AIBOs were gradually made cheaper (in general), had longer lasting batteries, had more sensors, and had other improvements such as using bluetooth. Although newer models had improved hardware, even the first AIBO had a 64-bit processor; 16 MB of RAM; touch, camera, range-finder, microphone, acceleration, and angular velocity sensors; and legs, a neck, mouth, and tail that it could move. Additionally, each AIBO had software that gave the robot a specific personality, the ability to walk, see, and recognize commands in English, Spanish, and Japanese.
    
    Although the main purpose of AIBOs was entertainment, they have also been used for various purposes such as education and to studying how humans and robots interact with each other. One example is a Carnegie Mellon course that used AIBOs to teach perception, cognition, and solving problems. Additionally, AIBOs have been used in AI competitions such as RoboCup. In this competition, teams program a set of robots to play soccer against another team consisting of the same type of robots.